— title: The Industry Memory Problem slug: the-industry-memory-problem
parent\_slug: problem-statement type: section order: 4 —

\## The Industry Memory Problem

Real estate operates with designed obsolescence ensuring recurring
revenue streams. Economic incentives favor repeated work over permanent
solutions, creating a system where efficiency threatens profitability.
When an inspector examines a five-year-old roof, they cannot access the
previous inspection despite nothing changing. When title searches occur,
they duplicate work performed months or years earlier. This systematic
amnesia costs consumers billions while providing no additional value.

Human redundancy replaces cryptographic permanence throughout the
system. Rather than creating immutable records that persist across
transactions, every process depends on fresh human verification. This
dependency exists not because technology cannot provide
permanence—blockchain and cryptographic signatures solve these problems
trivially—but because permanent records would eliminate recurring
revenue. The $8,100 in data costs per transaction includes extensive
duplication that benefits providers, not consumers.

The memory problem extends to professional reputation and performance.
Despite conducting thousands of transactions, agents, lenders, and
service providers lack verifiable track records accessible to consumers.
Bad actors continue operating while excellent professionals cannot
differentiate themselves through proven performance. This absence of
reputation memory enables continued extraction by preventing
market-based quality improvements.
