
The Elephant protocol creates an economy where truth pays better than lies, contribution earns more than extraction, and
governance flows to those who build rather than those who buy. Unlike traditional token launches with pre-sales, insider
allocations, and passive speculation, every MAHOUT token must be earned through verified work. This creates a
sustainable ecosystem where value flows to participants who maintain and improve the network’s core asset: accurate,
real-time property data. The economic model transforms real estate’s current extraction paradigm—where gatekeepers
profit from friction—into a contribution paradigm where participants profit from reducing friction.


Three distinct participant roles drive the Elephant economy, each with aligned incentives that reinforce system
integrity. Oracles earn MAHOUT tokens by bringing verified property data on-chain and maintaining its accuracy over
time. Service providers stake MAHOUT to advertise on property fact sheets, creating a competitive marketplace for
professional services. Transaction participants pay modest fees that fund ongoing operations and reward contributors.
This triangular economy ensures sustainable growth: more properties create more fact sheets, attracting more service
providers, generating more fees, incentivizing more oracles, who verify more properties.

The system makes honesty more profitable than deception at every level. Oracles who submit accurate data earn tokens and
governance power. Those who submit false data lose their stakes and reputation. Service providers who deliver quality
attract clients through prominent placement. Those who disappoint see their staked positions challenged by competitors.
Every economic mechanism reinforces the core principle: value creation beats value extraction.

All MAHOUT is minted only through active data work using the Proof of Truth mechanism. Genesis token supply starts at
zero; all tokens are earned by oracles through verified contributions. Proof of Truth requires oracles to submit valid,
fresh data updates in real time; whoever submits verified truth first earns mining rewards and vMAHOUT. No pre-sale, no
VC allocations, no passive farming—only verified work earns tokens.


Oracles form the backbone of Elephant’s economy, transforming real-world property data into blockchain-verified truth.
The protocol divides each property into 20 independent fact groups—ownership, mortgages, liens, permits, valuations, and
others—each requiring verification from three independent oracles who must reach unanimous consensus. This granular
approach enables getting as much data as possible on-chain as fast as possible, rather than waiting for complete
property records before beginning verification.

The reward structure creates urgency without sacrificing accuracy. For each fact group successfully verified, exactly 1
MAHOUT token is minted and distributed: approximately 81% to the first oracle, 16% to the second, and 3% to the third.
This exponential curve derives from game theory principles that balance first-mover advantages with the need for
verification redundancy. The steep reward gradient incentivizes rapid response—being first matters—while still providing
meaningful compensation for validators who ensure accuracy.

Being first is hardest because pioneers must develop data sourcing methods, build verification workflows, and establish
quality standards without existing templates. These early oracles create the infrastructure that makes future oracle
work significantly easier. They document data sources, automate verification processes, and establish best practices
that subsequent oracles can leverage. The exponential reward curve compensates these pioneers for both their
verification work and their pathfinding efforts that benefit the entire network.

Oracle participation requires staking MAHOUT tokens, with higher stakes earning priority access to unverified properties
entering the system. This stake faces slashing penalties for submitting false data, creating skin in the game that
ensures dedication to accuracy. The economic model transforms data verification from a cost center into a profit center
for diligent oracles.


Real estate professionals face a fundamental shift in the Elephant economy: from gatekeeping to genuine service
competition. The protocol automatically generates SEO-optimized fact sheets for every verified property, designed to
rank highly in search results and attract millions of property researchers. These fact sheets become premium advertising
real estate where professionals compete for visibility. (See Section 6.2 for detailed explanation of why Elephant fact
sheets naturally achieve superior search rankings through verified data, structured markup, and continuous updates.)

Service providers—agents, lenders, inspectors, attorneys—stake MAHOUT tokens to secure advertising positions on relevant
fact sheets. Higher stakes win more prominent placement, creating a pure market for attention. But unlike traditional
advertising where money alone determines position, the Elephant protocol incorporates performance metrics. Service
providers who generate positive outcomes maintain their positions with lower stakes, while those with poor reviews
require increasingly higher stakes to remain visible.

This staking mechanism generates continuous demand for MAHOUT tokens while funding the oracles who maintain the
underlying data. A portion of all staking fees flows back to the oracles responsible for each property’s fact groups,
creating recursive incentives for data quality. Better data attracts more users, driving more advertising value,
increasing staking competition, rewarding better oracles, who create better data.


Every real estate transaction conducted through the Elephant platform generates native fees that sustain the ecosystem
without extracting value. These fees, totaling approximately $700 per transaction, fund both oracle rewards and DAO
operational costs. Compared to the current $67,155 average transaction cost, this represents a 99% reduction in direct
transaction fees while still maintaining robust economics for all participants.

The fee structure breaks down into specific allocations: oracle rewards for maintaining property data, DAO treasury for
development and operations, and system maintenance including gas cost subsidies. This transparent allocation ensures
every dollar serves a specific purpose rather than disappearing into opaque "processing" or "administrative" fees.
Transaction fees also create natural token demand as they must be paid in MAHOUT, establishing a consumption mechanism
that balances token emission from oracle rewards.


Governance in the Elephant protocol flows exclusively to those who build and maintain the network. vMAHOUT tokens,
earned only through verified data contributions, determine voting power in protocol decisions. This isn’t purchasable
influence—every vMAHOUT represents actual work performed, data verified, and value created.

The governance model incorporates temporal decay to ensure power remains with active contributors. vMAHOUT voting
strength decreases by 1-2% weekly for inactive oracles, eventually approaching zero for those who stop contributing. If
another oracle updates a fact group previously maintained by an inactive oracle, the associated vMAHOUT transfers to the
active maintainer. This creates a governance system that naturally evolves with the network, preventing capture by early
participants who cease contributing.

Governance token transfers between oracles incur 10-30% burn penalties, allowing necessary operational transitions while
preventing speculative governance markets. An oracle can transfer responsibilities when retiring or selling their
business, but the burn ensures commitment to long-term participation rather than short-term governance arbitrage.


The protocol creates value beyond token economics through SEO-optimized property fact sheets. Every verified property
automatically generates a comprehensive, search-engine-friendly page containing all verified data. These pages, backed
by blockchain verification and continuously updated by oracles, naturally outrank marketing-focused property listings in
search results.

This creates an organic traffic flywheel that drives the entire economy. Property researchers find Elephant fact sheets
through Google, discover comprehensive verified data, and encounter service provider advertisements. Service providers
compete through staking for these valuable positions. Their stakes fund oracles who improve data quality. Better data
improves search rankings. Higher rankings drive more traffic. More traffic increases ad values. The cycle compounds.
Advertising is permissionless; those who stake more tokens gain better placement, while staking flows back to the data
validators.


MAHOUT supply grows deterministically with real-world property verification rather than arbitrary emission schedules.
With properties divided into fact groups, the maximum theoretical supply depends on the total number of properties and
their data complexity. However, practical supply remains much lower as not all properties require verification
simultaneously and some fact groups rarely change.

International expansion occurs through governance vote, where the protocol can issue tokens to incentivize verification
in new markets using the same mechanism. Each country’s property count multiplied by locally-appropriate fact groupings
determines the potential token allocation. This ensures consistent economic incentives across jurisdictions while
allowing flexibility for varying data structures and regulatory requirements.

Long-term equilibrium emerges from balanced supply and demand. Oracle rewards for new verifications decrease as fewer
unverified properties remain, while update rewards for maintaining data quality continue indefinitely. Transaction fees
create continuous token demand while staking for advertisements locks supply. The burn mechanism from governance
transfers adds deflationary pressure. These forces create a sustainable economy where token value reflects network
utility rather than speculation.
