— title: New Market Layers and Liquidity slug:
new-market-layers-and-liquidity parent\_slug: macro-impact type: section
order: 2 —

\## New Market Layers and Liquidity

Property tokenization through the Elephant protocol enables entirely new
financial structures previously impossible due to transaction costs.
When buying 10% of a property costs $671 in transaction fees rather than
$6,716, fractional ownership becomes economically viable for ordinary
investors. This democratization of real estate investment, currently
restricted to REITs and institutional players, opens the world’s largest
asset class to everyone.

Secondary markets for property-based instruments emerge naturally when
transaction friction disappears. Property shares can trade like stocks,
with instant settlement and transparent pricing. Homeowners can sell 20%
equity to fund renovations without refinancing. Investors can build
diversified property portfolios across geographies and types. The $7,145
transaction cost makes million-dollar commercial properties as
accessible as residential homes when divided into affordable shares.

Dynamic mortgage products become possible when refinancing doesn’t cost
$67,155. Imagine mortgages that automatically adjust to optimal rates,
saving borrowers thousands without paperwork or fees. Or home equity
lines that activate instantly based on smart contract conditions. Or
shared appreciation mortgages where investors and homeowners split gains
transparently. These innovations, impossible under current cost
structures, become routine when transactions cost 89% less.

DeFi integration transforms real estate from an isolated asset class to
composable financial building blocks. Property tokens can serve as
collateral for instant loans, generate yield through automated market
making, or package into synthetic instruments. The current $26.6
trillion US residential real estate market becomes programmable
liquidity rather than frozen capital, multiplying its economic utility.

Collateralization opportunities expand credit access to previously
excluded populations. When verifying property ownership costs $2,400
rather than $8,600, using home equity for small business loans becomes
viable. Immigrant communities can leverage property in home countries as
collateral for US credit. Instantaneous verification and low costs
democratize access to property-backed credit, reducing reliance on
predatory lending.
