# Token Supply Dynamics and Long-Term Equilibrium

MAHOUT supply grows deterministically with real-world property
verification rather than arbitrary emission schedules. With
approximately 140 million properties in the United States and 20 fact
groups per property, the maximum theoretical supply reaches 2.8 billion
MAHOUT tokens. However, practical supply remains much lower as not all
properties require verification simultaneously and some fact groups
rarely change.

Initial supply growth follows an S-curve: slow initial adoption as early
oracles verify high-value properties, rapid expansion as the network
proves its value, then gradual deceleration as most properties join the
system. We project 50 million tokens minted in Year 1, 200 million by
Year 3, and approaching 500 million by Year 5 as the system reaches
maturity.

Long-term equilibrium emerges from balanced supply and demand. Oracle
rewards for new verifications decrease as fewer unverified properties
remain, while update rewards for maintaining data quality continue
indefinitely. Transaction fees create continuous token demand while
staking for advertisements locks supply. The burn mechanism from
governance transfers adds deflationary pressure. These forces create a
sustainable economy where token value reflects network utility rather
than speculation.

The total addressable market extends far beyond initial US deployment.
International expansion multiplies potential supply while creating new
demand centers. Each country's property records require verification,
each market needs service providers, each transaction generates fees.
The token economy scales globally while maintaining local relevance
through property-specific fact sheets and service provider competition.

This economic model achieves what current real estate systems cannot:
aligned incentives where every participant profits from improving the
system rather than extracting from it. Oracles profit from truth.
Service providers profit from quality. Users profit from transparency.
The protocol profits from growth. Value flows to contributors rather
than gatekeepers, creating sustainable economics for the largest asset
class in human history.
