# Foundational Inefficiency

Real estate stands as the largest yet most inefficient consumer
transaction category in human history. Each property transaction imposes
\$67,532 in friction costs---a staggering burden that represents not
merely inefficiency but systematic value extraction through
architectural dysfunction. For families buying and selling homes
multiple times throughout their lives, these costs compound into
hundreds of thousands in lifetime transaction fees.

The current infrastructure treats each transaction as if property data
never existed before. Despite properties remaining fundamentally
unchanged between sales, the system demands complete re-verification of
every detail. This designed amnesia benefits intermediaries who profit
from repeated work while imposing unnecessary costs on consumers. When
transaction costs equal 2% of property value annually over typical
seven-year holding periods, the system effectively taxes homeownership
at rates rivaling property taxes themselves.

Data accessibility exemplifies the dysfunction. Multiple Listing
Services (MLS) operate as regional monopolies, charging thousands in
access fees while providing technology inferior to free consumer
platforms. These gatekeepers profit not from innovation but from
regulatory capture---controlling access to data that should flow freely
in competitive markets. The \$40,100 in labor costs per transaction
reflects not the complexity of matching buyers with sellers, but the
inefficiency of systems designed before digital communication existed.
