# Social Inclusion and Democratization

The reduction from \$67,155 to \$7,145 per transaction doesn't affect
all communities equally---it disproportionately benefits those currently
excluded from property markets. For a \$200,000 home in an underserved
community, current transaction costs consume 33.6% of property value.
Under Elephant, this drops to 3.6%, making homeownership achievable for
millions priced out by transaction friction rather than property values.

Information symmetry eliminates the knowledge arbitrage that currently
disadvantages first-time buyers, immigrants, and communities of color.
When all property data exists transparently on-chain, verified and
accessible, predatory practices become impossible. No more steering to
overpriced properties, hidden fees, or information gatekeeping. Every
participant accesses the same verified truth, leveling playing fields
warped by centuries of exclusion.

First-generation wealth building accelerates when transaction costs
don't consume inheritance. Currently, selling inherited property to
divide among heirs costs \$67,155, often forcing property sales at
below-market prices. With \$7,145 transaction costs, families can
maintain generational property wealth, use fractional ownership for
equitable distribution, or monetize gradually rather than through forced
liquidation.

Merit-based service provider opportunities expand globally when
geography doesn't determine access. An exceptional property analyst in
Bangladesh can serve clients in Boston. A brilliant mortgage structurer
in Mumbai can compete with Wall Street. The protocol rewards competence
and service quality regardless of location, creating global labor
markets that benefit both providers and consumers.

Direct owner access to property data revolutionizes agency
relationships. Currently, homeowners depend on intermediaries to access
their own property information---title history, lien status, permit
records. The Elephant protocol makes all verified data directly
accessible to property owners, transforming them from dependent clients
to empowered decision-makers. This shift in information power
restructures every professional relationship in real estate.
