# Verified Reputation Systems

The Elephant protocol creates the first real estate market where
reputation is objective, portable, and valuable. Every professional
interaction generates cryptographically signed outcomes---did the agent
deliver promised results, did the inspector identify actual issues, did
the lender provide quoted rates? This performance history, immutable and
transparent, transforms how markets evaluate and reward quality.

Performance-based compensation becomes standard when results are
verifiable. Instead of paying 6% commission regardless of outcome, smart
contracts can structure payment based on sale speed, price achievement,
or client satisfaction. An agent selling homes 20% faster than market
average commands premium compensation. One delivering poor service sees
their reputation score limit earning potential. Merit drives income
rather than mere participation.

On-chain performance history enables informed consumer choices
previously impossible. Selecting professionals based on verified track
records rather than marketing claims revolutionizes service quality.
Consumers can filter for agents with specific expertise, lenders with
consistent rates, or inspectors with high accuracy scores. This
transparency creates evolutionary pressure toward excellence---perform
or perish in a market that remembers everything.

Portable credentials support professional mobility while maintaining
accountability. A successful agent can move cities without losing
reputation. A highly-rated inspector can work across state lines with
verified credentials. But poor performers can't escape their history by
relocating or rebranding. This portability with permanence creates the
first truly efficient labor market in real estate.

Natural quality improvements emerge from transparency without regulatory
enforcement. When every professional knows their performance becomes
permanent public record, behavior changes. The sloppy inspector becomes
thorough. The high-pressure agent becomes consultative. The
bait-and-switch lender becomes honest. Market forces accomplish what
regulations struggle to enforce---consistent, high-quality service.
